Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain an American monster movie called
“The Sand.” Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie starts with some youngsters partying on
a beach. A cameraman films everyone as they dance,
make out and have fun. A guy named Mitch makes
everyone put their phones in a bag, so no one can
take pictures of the wild night and put them on
the internet. Then, two guys, Vance and Gilbert,
bring a ball of gooey substance, claiming that
they found it in the water. Everyone is disgusted,
but they do not think much of it. The scene
abruptly cuts to the following morning. Everyone
has fallen asleep. A girl named Kaylee is with
Mitch while four of their friends, namely, Chanda,
Jonah, Ronnie, and Vance, are in a car nearby.
Kaylee wakes up first and is looking around when
she sees a bird on the beach, struggling to fly.
She assumes that it is stuck but, all of a sudden,
the bird sinks into the sand. A shocked Kaylee
tries to warn everyone not to step on the sand.
But when she turns around, she sees her other
friend Marsha, who was lying naked on a bench,
jump on the sand. Her feet get stuck, and
she cannot move. The group is confused,
and Vance tries running out to get her. Kaylee
tries to stop him, but he doesn’t listen. He, too,
falls on the sand before he can reach Marsha and
gets stuck. By now, Marsha is nowhere to be seen;
the sand has swallowed her completely.
Vance screams in pain and asks his girlfriend
Ronnie to help him. As Vance tries to lift
his head, his skin and eye being pulled out
of his head. A horrified Ronnie screams his
name when he sinks into the sand. The group
starts brainstorming ideas on how this can happen.
When they try to call someone, they realize their
phones are in the trunk of the car. Jonah tries to
start the car, but its battery is dead. The group
is completely stuck on the beach. Kaylee then goes
near the deck and hovers her hand over the sand.
We see white strings trying to reach her palm from
under the sand. Mitch is surprised to see it too.
Just then, another one of their friends named
Gilbert wakes up stuck inside a trash can. He
curses the guys for jamming him into the bin after
he passed out the other night. The group warns
him not to move. Gilbert is confused but obliges
when he hears that Marsha and Vance are dead.
Mitch and Kaylee go inside, and Jonah looks
at them in jealousy. Kaylee and Jonah were
in a relationship a short while ago, but she is
hurt as Johan is with Chanda now. Chanda tries to
console Jonah, saying that Kaylee finally found
someone for her. A few hours pass, but no one
comes looking for them. Kaylee finds a sunscreen
and passes it to those outside. Gilbert is on the
verge of passing out because of the heat.
Kaylee then starts brainstorming how this could
have happened. They look around and finally
realize that everyone else who was at the party
has been sucked into the sand too. Just then,
Kaylee notices the gooey ball from the other night
near the water and sees that it has hatched.
They figure that it was an egg of some kind
of creature that lives under the sand. It has
been eating people as its food. Since it was
just born yesterday, the creature must be small
in size and have a shape. Kaylee devises a plan
to figure out how large the creature is. She gets
sausages and starts throwing them around the beach
to see how big the creature is. Gilbert sees a
bird being sucked into the sand and freaks out.
He finally realizes everything
his friends are saying is true.
The others retaliate against throwing sausages
around, claiming that it is their only source of
food, but Kaylee doesn’t stop. The last sausage
doesn’t get sucked in, and the group celebrates,
seeing there might be a way out. But they still
have no way to reach that far in the sand.
Jonah then gets in the back of their car and picks
up two surfboards. He keeps one on the sand and
jumps on top of it. Everyone is delighted when
he doesn’t sink. Jonah then makes his way to a
bench nearby. Just when he is about to step on it,
the surfboard moves by itself. Jonah almost falls
to the ground, and the string from inside the sand
gets into his stomach. He manages to save himself,
but his stomach is hurt. He finds a bag
full of food supplies on the bench.
He accidentally drops a banana on the ground, but
it doesn’t sink. Jonah hovers his hands over the
ground and figures out that the banana fell on
the part where they lit the bonfire last night.
So the creature cannot come out through fire
or ash. When he stands, we see the wounds in
his stomach get worse and pus starting to come
out of it. He starts to freak out, and Kaylee
calms him down, telling him to go through the
bag. He passes sodas and water that he found
in the bag to everyone while still whimpering
in pain. His wounds get worse by the second.
Jonah then tries passing a can to Mitch, but the
pouches of pus on his stomach start to break. He
cries in pain and lies down on the bench.
The surfboards on the ground are still moving,
suggesting that the creature is growing and
developing. Kaylee notices the strings attaching
to the car’s tires, trying to move it. They do
not have much time before the creature develops
big enough to swallow the whole car. Chanda and
Ronnie try getting the phones from the trunk.
Ronnie offers to get on top of the hood and try
to open it. She asks Chanda to give the letter she
has written in a diary to her mother in case she
dies, and steps on the hood. She is about to open
it, but Kaylee stops her, saying that the trunk
will open wide and make her fall into the sand.
Kaylee gives them a rescue hook so Ronnie can hold
onto it. She finally manages to open the trunk.
Just then, a car drives to the beach and honks at
the group. This startles Ronnie; she accidentally
closes the trunk again. Her fingers get stuck
on it, making her cry in pain. Mitch and Kaylee
yell at the car to help them. Inside the car is
a beach patrol officer. He assumes that the group
is on drugs and doesn’t take them seriously.
Despite Kaylee yelling at him to stay inside
his car, the man steps out of it. The group is
surprised when he walks freely on the beach.
A close-up of his feet shows us that the strings
cannot attach to his shoes. The officer goes near
Jonah and is disgusted by his wounds. He
completely ignores his pleas to help him,
still assuming that the group is on drugs. He
goes to talk to Kaylee and insults her and Mitch
for being reckless teenagers. He asks Kaylee
to step out and gets angry when she disagrees.
He threatens to use his pepper spray
on them, but when he reaches to get it,
he accidentally drops his keys on the sand. The
man then gets stuck while trying to pick them up.
The officer finally understands that the group
wasn’t lying, but cannot do anything now.
Kayle advises him to use the pepper spray on the
strings that are catching him. The spray works,
and he manages to free his hand, but half of his
arm is gone. He screams in pain, and the strings
pull him down again. After he is completely sucked
into the sand, Kaylee gets the pepper spray he had
dropped. Now, Mitch plans to use sandals and
towels wrapped on his feet to run through the
sand and get to the officer’s car. He believes
since the officer’s shoes resisted the creature,
the sandals would too. Chanda throws the
towel at Mitch, but the railing breaks
when he tries to catch it. Mitch falls onto the
sand and is brutally eaten by the creature.
Kaylee has had enough of the creature.
She sees the fallen railing moving on
the ground and gets an idea. She breaks a part
of the railing again and hands it to Chanda,
planning to use it as a bridge later. She then
gets on the deck and manages to jump on the car.
As soon as she lands, Kaylee punches Chanda
in the face for sleeping with her boyfriend.
Chanda doesn’t mind, and the two help Ronnie
to get her fingers out of the trunk.
Jonah, who has been on the bench the whole time,
tells Kaylee that he loves her. Kaylee then tells
them of her plan. She wants to use the railing as
a bridge to get to Jonah and then bring everyone
to the officer’s car. Chanda gets the railing
and places it on the sand. She walks carefully
and manages to reach Jonah. Kaylee does the
same. The three are safely at the bench when
Ronnie walks towards them. However, the strings
latch onto her injured hand, making her fall.
Kaylee tries saving her with the help of
pepper spray, but it only works for a second.
The creature grabs Ronnie into the sand. Chanda
then wraps her feet with a towel and a bag
and runs to the car. She successfully gets
on its hood before the strings can catch her.
Gilbert cheers to celebrate, but not long after,
his bin starts shaking. His body is cut by the
edge of the trash can and the blood attracts
the creature. The girls ask him to hold on,
but the creature has gotten inside the bin and is
grabbing onto his legs. Gilbert starts vomiting
blood. Soon, several large pairs of limbs
grab him and drag him into the ground.
The limbs then shake the car and make Chanda
fall on the hood. She falls unconscious as
Kaylee yells at her to wake up. Several hours
pass, and now it is nighttime. Chanda finally
regains consciousness. Kaylee is still at the
bench with an injured Jonah. Chanda discovers a
raft on the top of the officer’s car and uses it
to get to the bench. The three successfully get
to the raft and to the vehicle. Chanda and Jonah
are inside the car, but before Kaylee can come in,
a massive glowing tentacle attacks her. The
creature has grown to its full potential now.
Kaylee gets on top of the car, where she finds a
gas can. She uses it to light the tentacle on fire
and gets inside the car. Everything goes silent
as Kaylee and Chanda realize that Jonah has died
from his injuries. The girls hug each other and
cry, mourning the loss of their friends.
It is now the following morning, a man knocks
on the car’s windows, waking the girls.
They see that the monster is gone now, and they
can walk on the sand. The two walk across the
sand together, traumatized, as the man calls for
an ambulance. In a closing shot, the creature,
revealed as an enormous jellyfish, is seen in
the water, headed towards Santa Monica Pier.
That was probably the most exhilarating game of
‘The Floor is Lava’ that they ever played.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.